Tonight, President
Biden is
openly rebuking
the International Criminal Court
prosecutor
for seeking an arrest
warrant against both Hamas's
and the leader in the Israeli
Prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu,
for what they say are war crimes.
Let me be clear.
We reject the ICC application
for arrest warrants against Israeli,
whatever these warrants may imply.
There is no equivalence
between Israel and Hamas.
Contrary to allegations
against Israel made
by the International Court of Justice,
what's happening is not genocide.
We reject that.
That is a notable comment
from President Biden
there, flatly
rejecting accusations
that there's a genocide underway in Gaza.
I should note those accusations
which have been made
in the International Court of Justice
are separate
from today's actions
in the International Criminal Court,
which seeks to hold individual Hamas
and Israeli leaders both accountable.
The ICC chief prosecutor, Karim Khan,
convened a group of legal experts
that also included
the human rights attorney, Amal Clooney,
to advise on these warrants.
He defended this in
an exclusive interview
with CNN's Christiane Amanpour.
Nobody is above the law.
No people, by dint of birth or passport,
religion, nationality
or the color of their skin,
how they get out of jail
free card,
have a free pass to say
what the law doesn't apply to us.
Every human life, every baby
that is killed,
whether it's a baby
that's cruelly abducted by Hamas
and killed or a baby
that's been
bombed or killed
or has died in incubators
because of no electricity
or water or food in Gaza
for them, for their families
and for humanity, humanity.
It's a tragedy.
And this is why we have a court.
It's about the equal application
of the law.
Here tonight to discuss,
John Bolton,
the former national security adviser
under former President Donald Trump,
also the former U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations.
Ambassador Bolton, first.
Let me get your reaction to what we heard
from President Biden.
He had a pretty blunt rebuke
of what
we just heard there from the chief
prosecutor at the ICC.
And this idea that they are going
to seek these warrants
for both the leaders of Hamas,
but also the Israeli prime minister
and the defense minister.
Well, Biden is half right.
What's really illegitimate
here is the International
Criminal Court itself.
It's a fantasy.
It's a piece of government,
not a whole government,
a piece of government
floating around
in the international ether,
unchecked by executive
or legislative power,
utterly unable to enforce its judgments
and acting in a way that's
predictably irresponsible.
For many years,
people have referred to Israel
as the canary in the coal mine
on behalf of the United States.
This is another example,
because what
this rogue prosecutor,
this utterly unaccountable court
is doing here against Israel,
they're going to do against us
soon enough. Well, so what do you mean?
That the President Biden is half right.
He was he's
basically agreeing with you
that both of you agree
this is it's
wrong to say that you're going to go
after the leaders of Hamas
and also the Israeli leaders
and kind of create this equivalence
between the two of them.
No, I'm
saying it's wrong to go after
and this court is not the body
to prosecute anybody.
The court has also
indicted Vladimir Putin
in connection with Russia's
invasion of Ukraine.
That's the wrong way to do it, too.
You can't the
the the charge of moral equivalence
gives legitimacy to the court.
In effect,
if they indict really bad
guys, they're in favor of it.
And the fact is, it's the court itself
that's fundamentally flawed.
The example is right here in this case,
this unaccountable prosecutor
is interfering right
in the middle of
active conflict
now in a real government with real power.
In our case,
the president has both the war power
and the prosecution power
and sometimes has to make a trade off.
This utterly unaccountable prosecutor
didn't make any trade off at all.
And I think people should ask,
does this now make settling the conflict
in the Middle East easier or harder?
It won't matter to the prosecutor
because he'll never be held
responsible for it.
Yeah, and obviously,
you mentioned Putin there
and he's not really traveling a lot
maybe to China or something, but.
But what does this move mean
if they do get the judges
to sign off all these warrants?
And we don't know that they will.
But but if they do and they're executed,
what does that mean
for Israel's
allies who are parties to this court
and they're technically supposed to
to arrest them
if they travel and they
have an ICC warrant?
Well, it should be a wake up call to them
that they've stepped
into a very dangerous territory here.
And I think this is
the sort of thing
that that US
officials need to worry
about in particular.
You know, the one silver
lining in this cloud,
when you look at the self-righteous,
grandstanding, publicity
seeking prosecutor there,
I think this is the ICC digging its grave
in this country.
I think I would be happy to predict
right here.
I don't think
the US is going to join the ICC
within within the life span of anybody
watching this program
because the targets of this prosecutor
are fundamentally irrational
to proceed against a free, law
abiding democratic society
in the way that it did.
Shows it's
not tethered to a rule of law itself.
But, Ambassador, when you look at this,
there is growing criticism
of how Israel has conducted this war.
I mean, do you believe that
Israel has upheld
international law since October 7th?
I haven't heard
legitimate charges that it hasn't.
And I think there's been a lot of hype
propaganda.
One very important point,
just to prove that
there's a lot of United Nations,
the United Nations, the Palestinians.
Well, okay, let's let's talk
let's talk about that.
The United Nations just cut in half
the number of women and children
it reports killed in the Gaza conflict.
Now, this is the United Nations
accepting now the figures of the Hamas
ministry of Health
as opposed to the Hamas
information office.
But the fact is
the total number of casualties
and the number, particularly of women
and children killed
has been out of whack.
The U.N.
by its shift concedes
that numbers that have been used
on women
and children have been double what what,
what even another part of Hamas says
and I think this is a media problem, too,
if I may say so,
you know, these numbers have come from
Hamas entities
right from the start of this.
And normally what media outlets do
when they're given a fact like that,
they think it's important
enough to report that's fine.
They then go on to say,
we have not been able to verify
this independently.
Well, Ambassador,
were any media outlets in the country
because that is verified those numbers.
We have been deeply
skeptical of the numbers because we
they don't let free
and independent journalists go.
And CNN is tried on multiple occasions.
But while
even if you are skeptical of that
figure, as we've seen, even
President Biden expressed skepticism,
we do know that a lot of women
and children and Palestinian civilians
have been killed.
Have they been colluding with Hamas?
Do you have any information on that?
Palestinian babies?
Can women collude with Hamas?
Can women collude with Hamas
little children
that we're seeing, Ambassador,
who were in hospital
early 16 or 16 inside this
on this 16, 17 year old,
four years old.
All right.
Let's let's take that fun.
Let's let's take that.
The question
in conflict in urban conflict,
which the United States itself
has faced as recently
as Iraq with Fallujah and Mosul,
is is Israel targeting
legitimate military targets A and B,
has it taken into account
the proportional collateral effects
if it goes after those targets?
There's no prohibition
about civilian casualties,
otherwise you wouldn't
have urban conflict.
And the studies
that were done of American action
in Fallujah and Mosul
and other places in
Iraq and Afghanistan
have shown ratios of civilian
to military casualties
in the range of 5 to 1 in Gaza
by Hamas's own statistics.
The range is 2 to 1.
So I just think it's important
to understand that when Hamas
cynically barbaric
uses its own population as human shields,
the morally culpable party here is Hamas,
and no one is defending Hamas.
It's a good conversation to have.
Ambassador John Bolton,
thank you for your time tonight.
Glad to do it.